# Advanced Programming 2024

<img align="right" width="300" src="https://github.com/diku-dk/ap-e2024-pub/assets/55833/2a499f62-386c-4fbb-a66e-108a027364a0">

Welcome to the course website for Advanced Programming (AP) 2024! All
material and general information will be provided here. Announcements,
assignment handin, and the discussion forum remains on Absalon. While
this website is a Git repository, you are not required or expected to
use Git to interact with it, but feel free to do so if convenient for
you.

The programming language we will be using is **Haskell**.

The teaching material for each week can be found in the `weekI`
subdirectories.

The assignments for each week can be found in the `aI`
subdirectories.


## Preparation

AP has a reputation as a difficult course, particularly for
inexperienced programmers, and *especially* if you do not have prior
experience with functional programming. If you worry that your
background is insufficient, we recommend spending a little time
(re-)familiarising yourself with functional programming. The specific
language and book does not matter, but since we will use Haskell in
AP, you might as well read [Programming in
Haskell](https://www.cs.nott.ac.uk/~pszgmh/pih.html) by Graham Hutton.
If you do not like the style of this book, there are plenty others
available (such as [Haskell from First
Principles](https://haskellbook.com/)).

Many Haskell books focus on industrial uses, and go into great detail
about how to use complex libraries and such. This is well and good for
real-world programming, but unnecessary for AP, where we take a more
narrow focus. You do not need to read a thick book, unless you want
to.

If you have taken the course previously, see [these notes on
translating Erlang concepts to Haskell](erlang.md).

## Textbooks

We do not mandate a specific textbooks for learning Haskell, but we do
have suggestions. We will also specify some research papers and course
notes as mandated or suggested reading.

* [Programming in Haskell](https://www.cs.nott.ac.uk/~pszgmh/pih.html) (video lectures [here](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLF1Z-APd9zK7usPMx3LGMZEHrECUGodd3) and [here](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLF1Z-APd9zK5uFc8FKr_di9bfsYv8-lbc))
* [AP Course Notes](https://diku-dk.github.io/ap-notes/)
* [Course notes from Brent Yorgey's UPenn Haskell course](https://www.cis.upenn.edu/~cis1940/spring13/lectures.html)

We will also occasionally suggest reading material labeled *Going
Beyond*. This is material that goes beyond the requirements of the
course, but may be of interest to students who wish to apply the
techniques we investigate in applied settings. That is, students who
wish to become capable of writing advanced Haskell programs that solve
real problems.

## Course-specific material

* [Guide for setting up a Haskell development environment](haskell.md)
* [Haskell programming hints](haskell-hints.md)

## Software

See [this document on setting up a Haskell development environment](haskell.md).


